hey everybody my name is Matt I am the
co-founder and CTO of pinata and we
don't like to say that we are the
easiest way to use ipfs came on the
blockchain space we've been around since
2018 or so so it's approaching two years
doing what we do so what is a pinning
service now is the paying service for
the ipfs network which means that we
will pin your content on our ipfs nodes
as a service so why would you use pinata
in addition to or in place of running
your own IP FS nodes we've done a lot of
work to make sure that it's as easy as
possible to pend content on ipfs using
our service with an easy API and a
simple UI to upload and manage your pins
we're also focusing on making sure that
Yanis fast so we prioritize any updates
and for our network that impacts speed
and make sure that speed is a very
important factor in deciding kind of how
we evolved as a service we don't want to
do everything we want to do the things
that we do very well and then lastly
we're always online so we offer a
reliable way to make sure that your
content is always available through our
network of ipfs nodes all around the
world we have nodes in Europe the United
States and we're always expanding more
so hit us up if you have locations that
you'd like to see and what this means is
that teams can save money by relying on
pinata to manage ipfs devops for them
running ipfs nodes and infrastructure
can be very expensive and time-consuming
especially if you're throwing an entire
team at it and if you want to use pinata
in addition to hosting contents on your
own nodes we can also help you increase
uptime and availability of your content
so who uses pinata blockchain
applications are a big one we came from
the blockchain space it's where we
launched and these applications are all
using us for off chain data this is
because the content addressable nature
of ipfs allows blocked
applications to store a lot larger
amounts of data off chain while still
maintaining full immutability of the
data this is super important for
botching applications in general so for
similar reasons we also have a lot of
digital artists creators who use pinata
and ipfs for these things called non
fungible tokens or entities for short if
you guys have ever heard of like open C
super rare even crypto kitties is
probably the one a lot of people are
familiar with these are all NF T's and
these are little basically assets that
are printed on Shane and then they
reference data previously these MF T's
have reference to traditional web URLs
and for those of you that understand
that ipfs and why it's better than the
traditional web it might make sense why
they want to switch to ipfs using IP FS
allows them to basically make sure their
content is immutable and will never
change and can be served from anywhere
in the world regardless of whether you
know it's linking to say some Amazon s3
buckets somewhere right that's that's
not very long term so for an awesome
write-up on this subject as well there's
a lot of information there to check out
we have a recent blog post on NF T is
written by a community artist called
Connie digital so it was a great post
really a good guy
and then lastly something that's really
cool with ipfs sure you guys will be
hearing a lot about this we've heard
fleek mentioned it's a really big player
in this space blockchain based domains
are becoming big and these are things
domains offered by say unstoppable
domains or ENS and what these allow
users to do is host their own websites
which then resolved by pointing to a
blockchain record of an IP FS hash so
many people hosting their websites will
rely on pinata to basically host their
content for that website and serve it to
the rest of the world so they don't have
to run their own servers for just you
know one single website okay so a lot of
these use cases have a similar problem
they're solving and this is something we
kind of heavily focus on and ping out it
which is in the modern web you have to
trust every
server you interact with you have to
hope that nobody's changed to files
location without telling you you also
have to hope that no server has been
compromised and secretly feeding you
faulty data with IP FS and its content
addressable filesystem that you don't
have to worry about that so our users
can safely store data with us on ipfs
knowing that we'll never be able to
change it without the million so as long
as the content being served matched up
with the CI D that they're asking for
users know that the data they're
receiving is correct and hasn't changed
so we like to say that this is trusting
the data itself without needing to trust
where it's coming from so it could be
coming from their servers it could be
coming from pinata it could be coming
from a different painting service or
basically any node in the network that
has that data they don't need to care
where it comes from as long as it
matches the CI D that's the most
important thing here okay so we talked a
little bit about pinata but let's go 205
au which is the reason we're all here
today so as you guys have already heard
the DHT received massive improvements
with oh five oh these new improvements
mean the nodes are basically able to let
other nodes know about their content a
lot quicker with a lot of very improved
efficiency and similarly it also lets
nodes in the network locate content
faster so this means that services that
are handling large amounts of public
data such as pinata are able to get our
users content to where it's being
requested a lot faster which leads to a
better user experience and leads to more
people using IP FS which it's great
secondly mid swamp improvements I heard
a little bit about these as well so oh
five obrah serious improvements two-bit
swamp and these improvements were the
direct result of an awesome
collaboration between the ipfs team and
Netflix a shout-out to Edgar Lee if
you're on this collar you're gonna watch
it at some point really awesome work and
what these improvements mean for pinata
to put it simply these improvements mean
that once our content is found so the
DHT helps the content get found quicker
and then once the contents found bit
swap helps it get to the requesting node
a lot more efficiently
with previously with previous versions a
bit swap there were often a ton of
duplicate blocks that were getting cents
between the nodes and this wasted
bandwidth and slowed down to the content
delivery and then with new bit swap
contents being delivered faster and less
duplicate blocks are being sent in the
process so this means large constant
providers like pinata are able to be to
your content faster while also lowering
the amount of bandwidth needed by both
us and our users which is super awesome
so last day I just kinda wanted to talk
about how you guys can all get involved
here there's a lot of opportunities to
get involved with ipfs some of us are in
our own projects a lot of us are
thinking about getting involved but
first I want to talk about is the early
testers program so as part of each major
ipfs release
Pagnotta is one of multiple teams that
deploys the new version to our test
network and make sure that everything's
working properly make sure that the
release is stable before it gets
released to the world and the more eyes
that we can get on each new version of
ipfs before a release means that each
release is going to be more stable so if
you'd like to test new things try and
break them highly recommend checking out
the early testers program your help is
appreciated next so I talked about a
little bit of collab work specifically
between Netflix and bit Slav the ipfs
ecosystem provides itself on its open
source nature many of the improvements
being made to ipfs or a direct result of
contributions from the community so if
you find yourself modifying some piece
of the ipfs tech staff to solve the
problem that's specific to you or your
project consider contributing what
you've worked on it's the official ipfs
codebase and then the rising tide will
lift all boats and everybody wins
and then lastly dev grants and bounties
so if you aren't sure where to start I'd
recommend checking out dev grants or
bounties you'll find a lot of
opportunities to help out the ipfs
project whether it's documentation or
create a new code and then you can get
paid for the help you provide so again
everybody wins
that's all I really have to say happy
painting thanks for the ipfs team for
putting together some awesome work I
know five-o and
for everybody else represented today